.github/README.md, before:

This is a fork of the <a href="https://github.com/laradock/laradock">laradock</a> repo. 

This package allows developers to define their yml and env configurations in their project directory and submit them to their own repo.

Usage:

Submodule this repo into your project:

```
git submodule add --name laradock-my-project --force https://github.com/heyorca/laradock.git laradock-my-project
```

Your project tree should look like something like this:

```
- my-project
    - public
    - stuff
    - laradock-my-project (submodule)
        - .env (symlink to ../laradock-env)
        - docker-compose (symlink to ../laradock-docker-compose)
    - laradock-env
    - laradock-docker-compose.yml
```
    
Run `docker-compose up` from the laradock directory and you should see dockers running based on the parent laradock-env and laradock-docker-compose.yml file.

You can use the example-env and example-docker-compose files in the laradock directory to build your project's laradock configurations.

## License

[MIT License](https://github.com/laradock/laradock/blob/master/LICENSE)

Commit message:

More edits to the README

.github/README.md, after:

This is a fork of the <a href="https://github.com/laradock/laradock">laradock</a> repo. 

# Why?

Laradock helps developers with pre-configured docker containers. It can be included as a git submodule in the project directory:

```
my-project (directory)
    public
    stuff
    laradock (submodule)
        .env
        docker-compose.yml
        some-other-stuff
```

Problem is changes inside the git submodule (e.g. docker-compose.yml) cannot be included in the main git repo of the project; limiting the developer to make configuration changes to laradock that can be committed to the repo. 

This package allows developers to use laradock in their projects, but define the laradock docker-compose.yml and .env configurations outside the laradock folder and inside their project directory. This makes it possible to submit these configuration files to the repo, making it faster for others to setup and run projects locally.

# Usage

Submodule this repo into your project:

```
git submodule add --name laradock-my-project --force https://github.com/heyorca/laradock.git laradock-my-project
```

Your project tree should look like something like this:

```
- my-project
    - public
    - stuff
    - laradock-my-project (submodule)
        - .env (symlink to ../laradock-env)
        - docker-compose (symlink to ../laradock-docker-compose)
        - some-other-stuff
    - laradock-env
    - laradock-docker-compose.yml
```
    
Run `docker-compose up` from the laradock directory and you should see dockers running based on the parent laradock-env and laradock-docker-compose.yml file.

You can use the example-env and example-docker-compose files in the laradock directory to build your project's laradock configurations.

Visit <a href="https://github.com/laradock/laradock">laradock</a> to learn more.

## License

[MIT License](https://github.com/laradock/laradock/blob/master/LICENSE)
