DOCUMENTATION/docs/contributing.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 100
title: Contributions
---

[![Open in Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/button/open-in-gitpod.svg)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/laradock/laradock)


## Have a Question

If you have questions about how to use Laradock, please direct your questions to the discussion on [Gitter](https://gitter.im/Laradock/laradock). If you believe your question could help others, then consider opening an [Issue](https://github.com/laradock/laradock/issues) (it will be labeled as `Question`) And you can still seek help on Gitter for it.



## Found an Issue

If you have an issue or you found a typo in the documentation, you can help us by
opening an [Issue](https://github.com/laradock/laradock/issues).

**Steps to do before opening an Issue:**

1. Before you submit your issue search the archive, maybe your question was already answered couple hours ago (search in the closed Issues as well).

2. Decide if the Issue belongs to this project or to [Docker](https://github.com/docker) itself! or even the tool you are using such as Nginx or MongoDB...

If your issue appears to be a bug, and hasn't been reported, then open a new issue.

*This helps us maximize the effort we can spend fixing issues and adding new
features, by not reporting duplicate issues.*



## Want a Feature
You can request a new feature by submitting an [Issue](https://github.com/laradock/laradock/issues) (it will be labeled as `Feature Suggestion`). If you would like to implement a new feature then consider submitting a Pull Request yourself.




## Update the Documentation (Site)

Laradock uses [Hugo](https://gohugo.io/) as website generator tool, with the [Material Docs theme](http://themes.gohugo.io/theme/material-docs/). You might need to check their docs quickly.

Go the `DOCUMENTATION/content` and search for the markdown file you want to edit

Note: Every folder represents a section in the sidebar "Menu". And every page and sidebar has a `weight` number to show it's position in the site.

To update the sidebar or add a new section to it, you can edit this `DOCUMENTATION/config.toml` toml file.

> The site will be auto-generated in the `docs/` folder by [Travis CI](https://travis-ci.org/laradock/laradock/).



### Host the documentation locally

**Option 1: Use Hugo Docker Image:**

1. Update the `DOCUMENTATION/content`.
2. Go to `DOCUMENTATION/`.
3. Run `docker run --rm -it -v $PWD:/src -p 1313:1313 -u hugo jguyomard/hugo-builder hugo server -w --bind=0.0.0.0`
4. Visit [http://localhost:1313/](http://localhost:1313/)

**Option 2: Install Hugo Locally:**

1. Install [Hugo](https://gohugo.io/) on your machine.
2. Update the `DOCUMENTATION/content`.
3. Delete the `/docs` folder from the root.
4. Go to `DOCUMENTATION/`.
5. Run the `hugo` command to generate the HTML docs inside a new `/docs` folder.


## Support new Software (Add new Container)

* Fork the repo and clone the code.

* Create folder as the software name (example: `mysql` - `nginx`).

* Add your `Dockerfile` in the folder "you may add additional files as well".

* Add the software to the `docker-compose.yml` file.

* Make sure you follow the same code/comments style.

* Add the environment variables to the `.env.example` if you have any.

* **MOST IMPORTANTLY** update the `Documentation`, add as much information.

* Submit a Pull Request, to the `master` branch.



## Edit supported Software (Edit a Container)

* Fork the repo and clone the code.

* Open the software (container) folder (example: `mysql` - `nginx`).

* Edit the files.

* Make sure to update the `Documentation` in case you made any changes.

* Submit a Pull Request, to the `master` branch.




## Edit Base Image

* Open any dockerfile, copy the base image name (example: `FROM phusion/baseimage:latest`).

* Search for the image in the [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/search/) and find the source..

*Most of the image in Laradock are official images, these projects live in other repositories and maintainer by other organizations.*

**Note:** Laradock has two base images for (`Workspace` and `php-fpm`, mainly made to speed up the build time on your machine.

* Find the dockerfiles, edit them and submit a Pull Request.

* When updating a Laradock base image (`Workspace` or `php-fpm`), ask a project maintainer "Admin" to build a new image after your PR is merged.

**Note:** after the base image is updated, every dockerfile that uses that image, needs to update his base image tag to get the updated code.








<br/>




## Submit Pull Request Instructions

### 1. Before Submitting a Pull Request (PR)

Always Test everything and make sure its working:

- Pull the latest updates (or fork of you don’t have permission)
- Before editing anything:
    - Test building the container (docker-compose build --no-cache container-name) build with no cache first.
    - Test running the container with some other containers in real app and see of everything is working fine.
- Now edit the container (edit section by section and test rebuilding the container after every edited section)
    - Testing building the container (docker-compose build container-name) with no errors.
    - Test it in a real App if possible.


### 2. Submitting a PR
Consider the following guidelines:

* Search [GitHub](https://github.com/laradock/laradock/pulls) for an open or closed Pull Request that relates to your submission. You don't want to duplicate efforts.

* Make your changes in a new git branch:

     ```shell
     git checkout -b my-fix-branch master
     ```
* Commit your changes using a descriptive commit message.

* Push your branch to GitHub:

    ```shell
    git push origin my-fix-branch
    ```

* In GitHub, send a pull request to `laradock:master`.
* If we suggest changes then:
  * Make the required updates.
  * Commit your changes to your branch (e.g. `my-fix-branch`).
  * Push the changes to your GitHub repository (this will update your Pull Request).

> If the PR gets too outdated we may ask you to rebase and force push to update the PR:

```shell
git rebase master -i
git push origin my-fix-branch -f
```

*WARNING. Squashing or reverting commits and forced push thereafter may remove GitHub comments on code that were previously made by you and others in your commits.*


### 3. After your PR is merged

After your pull request is merged, you can safely delete your branch and pull the changes from the main (upstream) repository:

* Delete the remote branch on GitHub either through the GitHub web UI or your local shell as follows:

    ```shell
    git push origin --delete my-fix-branch
    ```

* Check out the master branch:

    ```shell
    git checkout master -f
    ```

* Delete the local branch:

    ```shell
    git branch -D my-fix-branch
    ```

* Update your master with the latest upstream version:

    ```shell
    git pull --ff upstream master
    ```





<br/>
## Happy Coding :)

Commit message:

fix docs build and make some improvements

DOCUMENTATION/docs/contributing.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 100
title: Contributions
---

[![Open in Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/button/open-in-gitpod.svg)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/laradock/laradock)


## Have a Question

If you have questions about how to use Laradock, please direct your questions to the discussion on [Gitter](https://gitter.im/Laradock/laradock). If you believe your question could help others, then consider opening an [Issue](https://github.com/laradock/laradock/issues) (it will be labeled as `Question`) And you can still seek help on Gitter for it.



## Found an Issue

If you have an issue or you found a typo in the documentation, you can help us by
opening an [Issue](https://github.com/laradock/laradock/issues).

**Steps to do before opening an Issue:**

1. Before you submit your issue search the archive, maybe your question was already answered couple hours ago (search in the closed Issues as well).

2. Decide if the Issue belongs to this project or to [Docker](https://github.com/docker) itself! or even the tool you are using such as Nginx or MongoDB...

If your issue appears to be a bug, and hasn't been reported, then open a new issue.

*This helps us maximize the effort we can spend fixing issues and adding new
features, by not reporting duplicate issues.*



## Want a Feature
You can request a new feature by submitting an [Issue](https://github.com/laradock/laradock/issues) (it will be labeled as `Feature Suggestion`). If you would like to implement a new feature then consider submitting a Pull Request yourself.



## Update the Documentation (Site)

Laradock uses [Docusaurus](https://docusaurus.io/) as its documentation site generator.

Navigate to the `DOCUMENTATION/docs` directory to locate and edit the Markdown files for each section of the documentation.

**Note:** Each folder under `docs` represents a section in the sidebar menu, with a `sidebar_position` field in the frontmatter of each file that determines its order.

> The documentation site is auto-generated and deployed to the `gh-pages` branch by GitHub Actions when changes are pushed to the `master` branch.

### Host the Documentation Locally

1. Make your changes are made in the `DOCUMENTATION/docs` directory (if you changed anything).
2. Navigate to `DOCUMENTATION/`.
3. Run the following command to start a local Docusaurus server:
   ```
    npm run start
   ```
4. Visit [http://localhost:3000/](http://localhost:3000/) to view the documentation site locally.

This setup will allow you to preview your changes in real time.



## Support new Software (Add new Container)

* Fork the repo and clone the code.

* Create folder as the software name (example: `mysql` - `nginx`).

* Add your `Dockerfile` in the folder "you may add additional files as well".

* Add the software to the `docker-compose.yml` file.

* Make sure you follow the same code/comments style.

* Add the environment variables to the `.env.example` if you have any.

* **MOST IMPORTANTLY** update the `Documentation`, add as much information.

* Submit a Pull Request, to the `master` branch.



## Edit supported Software (Edit a Container)

* Fork the repo and clone the code.

* Open the software (container) folder (example: `mysql` - `nginx`).

* Edit the files.

* Make sure to update the `Documentation` in case you made any changes.

* Submit a Pull Request, to the `master` branch.




## Edit Base Image

* Open any dockerfile, copy the base image name (example: `FROM phusion/baseimage:latest`).

* Search for the image in the [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/search/) and find the source..

*Most of the image in Laradock are official images, these projects live in other repositories and maintainer by other organizations.*

**Note:** Laradock has two base images for (`Workspace` and `php-fpm`, mainly made to speed up the build time on your machine.

* Find the dockerfiles, edit them and submit a Pull Request.

* When updating a Laradock base image (`Workspace` or `php-fpm`), ask a project maintainer "Admin" to build a new image after your PR is merged.

**Note:** after the base image is updated, every dockerfile that uses that image, needs to update his base image tag to get the updated code.








<br/>




## Submit Pull Request Instructions

### 1. Before Submitting a Pull Request (PR)

Always Test everything and make sure its working:

- Pull the latest updates (or fork of you don’t have permission)
- Before editing anything:
    - Test building the container (docker-compose build --no-cache container-name) build with no cache first.
    - Test running the container with some other containers in real app and see of everything is working fine.
- Now edit the container (edit section by section and test rebuilding the container after every edited section)
    - Testing building the container (docker-compose build container-name) with no errors.
    - Test it in a real App if possible.


### 2. Submitting a PR
Consider the following guidelines:

* Search [GitHub](https://github.com/laradock/laradock/pulls) for an open or closed Pull Request that relates to your submission. You don't want to duplicate efforts.

* Make your changes in a new git branch:

     ```shell
     git checkout -b my-fix-branch master
     ```
* Commit your changes using a descriptive commit message.

* Push your branch to GitHub:

    ```shell
    git push origin my-fix-branch
    ```

* In GitHub, send a pull request to `laradock:master`.
* If we suggest changes then:
  * Make the required updates.
  * Commit your changes to your branch (e.g. `my-fix-branch`).
  * Push the changes to your GitHub repository (this will update your Pull Request).

> If the PR gets too outdated we may ask you to rebase and force push to update the PR:

```shell
git rebase master -i
git push origin my-fix-branch -f
```

*WARNING. Squashing or reverting commits and forced push thereafter may remove GitHub comments on code that were previously made by you and others in your commits.*


### 3. After your PR is merged

After your pull request is merged, you can safely delete your branch and pull the changes from the main (upstream) repository:

* Delete the remote branch on GitHub either through the GitHub web UI or your local shell as follows:

    ```shell
    git push origin --delete my-fix-branch
    ```

* Check out the master branch:

    ```shell
    git checkout master -f
    ```

* Delete the local branch:

    ```shell
    git branch -D my-fix-branch
    ```

* Update your master with the latest upstream version:

    ```shell
    git pull --ff upstream master
    ```





<br/>
## Happy Coding :)
